# Chess 1991

The app has been partially completed. Gameplay screen and layout, piece functionality, powerups, enemy pieces, main and difficulty menu views, tutorial, and gameover screen is done.

Currently, a user is able to play the game in the three difficulty modes (Easy, Medium, Hard). The player is able to move their piece, enemy pieces spawn and move dynamically, powerups spawn and are able to be used, and information such as lives and points are recorded. Enemy pieces are divided into two categories: red and grey. Grey pieces remain static and will only capture the user piece if it moves into their range, while red pieces will actively move toward the player piece during the enemies' turn. The number of enemy pieces that spawn is determined by difficulty. Enemy pieces spawn every five turns in Easy, every four turns in Medium, and every three turns in Hard. Additionally, the number of enemy pieces that spawn each "wave" increases as the game continues. There are two powerups: one that gives the player an extra life, and one that protects the player from losing a life to enemy capture three times. The user earns points by capturing enemy pieces, with the amount of points earned depending on what kind of piece is captured and the color of the piece. 

Repeat gameplay is available at the game over screen through clicking "Play again". The tutorial has been finished, and the user can go through it to learn how to play the game. This tutorial is accessible in-game and from the difficulty selection menu. 

Login information, leaderboard display, customization, and options are incomplete. The general aesthetic of the app is incomplete, and we are currently using plain text and placeholder images. Additionally, some gameplay features may be changed in the future, such as the available powerups and how they work.
Additionally, there is a known bug, involving the disappearance of red enemy pieces, that we have yet to fix. This showed up in our video but we did not notice it until later review.
